# CS330-X6374_Comp-Graphic-Visualization

How do I approach designing software?
I approach designing software as if I have a big puzzle that needs to be broken down into several smaller manageable solutions. In creating these smaller solutions, I look for ways of modularizing each solution so that it can be used again for similar challenges in the future. I try to be descriptive yet concise in my comments to make future changes and/or maintenance easier for myself and anyone else who may have to navigate the code.

What new design skills has your work on the project helped you to craft?
The new design skill my work on the project has helped me to craft are utilizing Visual Studio 2019, having a basic understanding of OpenGL and GLSL, working with array buffer objects, and creating callbacks to recognize user input from the keyboard and/or mouse.

What design process did you follow for your project work?
The design process I followed for my project work was to use simple code to get my libraries and includes directories all connected and working smoothly, then proceeding to develop the framework and structure little by little. I saved and tested the code often which led me to clean and rebuild the solution often as well, especially when running into errors. The deeper I got into the project, the more I looked for ways to simplify and modularize code into functions such that I was not repeating blocks of code to repeat tasks. I also made sure to be descriptive in the purpose of each function as well as any components of said function that needed guidance.

How could tactics from your design approach be applied in future work?
The tactics from my design approach are good practices in general so it would be ideal to use these tactics in future work for the sake of practicality, logical approaches to problem solving, effective time management, and clear and concise documentation. Designing software is all about taking a big challenge and breaking it down into smaller challenges so as long as the tactics cater to the bigger picture, they can be effectively used for most if not all designs in some shape or form.

How do I approach developing programs?
I approach developing programs in small increments. It is important not to write too much code or get too far ahead in building the logic without testing along the way to catch any small mistakes or nuances. For one, you want to address the mistakes while the logic is still fresh in your mind for that task. For two, it is much easier to find a mistake when you know you've only written so many lines of code between runtime tests. When I get an error, I always look at the very first error first because oftentimes this will fix most if not all subsequent errors in the list. When I get stumped on logic, I am a big fan of documentation, Google, YouTube, Stack Overflow, and other popular coding venues such as freeCodeCamp, W3Schools, and GeeksforGeeks.

What new development strategies did you use while working on your 3D scene?
One new development strategy I used while working on my 3D scene was that I ran a formula in the main function that printed and formatted the vertices and indices for a sphere into the console. Then, I copy/pasted the vertices into the vertices array, and did the same for the indices array. I went through and spaced them the best I could to make it look uniform and easy as possible to follow. This saved a tremendous amount of time because there is an 'xyz' coordinate for the vertex, an 'xyz' coordinate for the normals of each vertex, and an 'st' texture coordinate for each vertex. This equates to 8 coordinates per triangle of the sphere. Another development strategy I used was to utilize the struct data structure to make it easy to perform draw calls of the indices for each object in the element array buffer. A third development strategy I used was to create a function that could create, place, and texture an object in the render loop. This made adding primitive objects with textures a very quick process.

How did iteration factor into your development?
Iteration factored into my development such that I tested often to make sure my progress was actually progressive, and my mistakes were not hard to find unless it was something I had no knowledge about. Also, anything such as creating textures or objects that was iterative in nature, I was quick to recognize as something that would benefit from modularization.
How has your approach to developing code evolved throughout the milestones, which led you to the project’s completion?
My approach to developing code has evolved throughout the milestones leading to the project's completion such that I see the significance even moreso with clear and concise comments, modularizing code using headers, functions, and data structures, and the importance of taking breaks to let the mind refresh even if only for a few minutes to take your eyes off of the screen. I've learned that oftentimes slow and steady is faster in developing software.

How can computer science help me in reaching my goals?
My goals are to be able to code anything I want, when I want, and how I want so computer science could certainly provide me with a strong foundation for that. More importantly, computer science teaches you how to think of unthinkable solutions which is a useful trait for any endeavors.

How do computational graphics and visualizations give you new knowledge and skills that can be applied in your future educational pathway?
Computational graphics and visualizations furthered my education in the ways of developing software in a way I had not really had much experience with: using an API for an enitre application. This is a vital skill in developing software so I am sure I will be able to utilize this going forward in my CS program. Additionally, this was my first time using Visual Studio. I had developed all previous programs using Eclipse with the exception of one in which I used IntelliJ. I've known a few people who use Visual Studio professionally and have good things to say about it, and I will have to say that I agree with them now with firsthand experience.

How do computational graphics and visualizations give you new knowledge and skills that can be applied in your future professional pathway?
Computational graphics and visualizations gave me the experience of working with APIs, working with OpenGL, and introduced me to Visual Studio. These are all phenomenal skills and/or knowledge to have in my computer science arsenal, even if I do not use OpenGL or VS exclusively in my career. The real skill that is important to carry with me is the ability to adapt to ever-changing technology and be able to pickup any tool along the way and effectively use it to solve the challenge in front of me.
